
# Buffers

## `c_buffer_new`
~~~ {.c}
    struct c_buffer *c_buffer_new(void);
~~~~

Creates and returns a new empty buffer.

## `c_buffer_delete`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_buffer_delete(struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Frees `buf` and all data associated to it. If `buf` is null or if the buffer is
not initialized, no action is performed.

## `c_buffer_data`
~~~ {.c}
    char *c_buffer_data(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Returns a pointer to the data stored in `buf`. If `buf` is not initialized,
`c_buffer_data` returns `NULL`.

## `c_buffer_length`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_length(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Returns the length of `buf`, i.e. the number of bytes stored inside it.

## `c_buffer_free_space`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_free_space(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Returns the size of the free space at the end of `buf`.

## `c_buffer_size`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_size(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Returns the size of `buf`, i.e. the number of bytes allocated for its content.
The size of the buffer is greater or equal to its length.

## `c_buffer_reset`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_buffer_reset(struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Clears all data stored in `buf` and release the associated memory.

## `c_buffer_clear`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_buffer_clear(struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Clears all data stored in `buf`. Note that this function does not actually
modify the content of the buffer and has a complexity of `Ο(1)`.

## `c_buffer_truncate`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_buffer_truncate(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t sz);
~~~

Truncates the content of `buf` to `sz` bytes. Note that this function does not
actually modify the content of the buffer and has a complexity of `Ο(1)`.

## `c_buffer_increase_length`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_increase_length(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t n);
~~~

Increases the length of `buf` by `n` bytes. Note that this function does not
modify the content of the buffer, only its length.

`c_buffer_increase_length` is to be used with `c_buffer_reserve` to write
directly to the buffer. `c_buffer_reserve` reserves some space and returns a
pointer to the end of the buffer. One can then use this pointer to write to
the buffer, and call `c_buffer_increase_length` to update its length.

If `n` is too large, `c_buffer_increase_length` returns -1. If not, it
returns 0.

## `c_buffer_reserve`
~~~ {.c}
    char *c_buffer_reserve(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t sz) {
~~~

Makes sure that `buf` has at least `sz` bytes of free contiguous memory at its
end, then return a pointer to the first byte after the end of `buf`.

If memory allocation fails, `c_buffer_reserve` returns `NULL`.

## `c_buffer_insert`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_insert(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t offset, const char *data,
                         size_t sz);
~~~

Copies `sz` bytes referenced by `data` at the offset `offset` of `buf`. If
`offset` is equal to the length of `buf`, data are copied to the end of `buf`.
If not, the content of `buf` after `offset` is moved to make place for new
data.

If a memory allocation function fails, `c_buffer_insert` returns -1. If not,
it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_add`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_add(struct c_buffer *buf, const char *data, size_t sz);
~~~

Copies `sz` bytes referenced by `data` to the end of `buf`.

If a memory allocation function fails, `c_buffer_add` returns -1. If not,
it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_add_buffer`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_add_buffer(struct c_buffer *buf, const struct c_buffer *src);
~~~

Copies the content of the `src` buffer to `buf`.

If a memory allocation function fails, `c_buffer_add_buffer` returns -1.
If not, it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_add_string`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_add_string(struct c_buffer *buf, const char *str);
~~~

Copies the null-terminated string `str` to `buf`. Note that the final `\0`
byte is not copied.

If a memory allocation function fails, `c_buffer_add_string` returns -1.
If not, it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_add_vprintf`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_add_vprintf(struct c_buffer *buf, const char *fmt, va_list ap);
~~~

Adds formatted data defined by the format string `fmt` and the `va_list`
variable `ap` to `buf`. Note that no final '\0' is added.

If formatting or memory allocation fails, `c_buffer_add_printf` returns -1.
If not, it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_add_printf`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_buffer_add_printf(struct c_buffer *buf, const char *fmt, ...)
~~~

Adds formatted data defined by the format string `fmt` to `buf`. Note that no
final '\0' is added.

If formatting or memory allocation fails, `c_buffer_add_printf` returns -1.
If not, it returns 0.

## `c_buffer_skip`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_buffer_skip(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t n);
~~~

Removes up to `n` bytes at the beginning of `buf`. Note that this function does
not actually modify the content of the buffer and has a complexity of `Ο(1)`.
Calling `c_buffer_skip` does not modify the pointer returned by
`c_buffer_data`.

## `c_buffer_remove_before`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_remove_before(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t offset, size_t n);
~~~

Removes up to `n` bytes before offset `offset` in `buf`. Returns the number of
bytes actually removed.

## `c_buffer_remove_after`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_remove_after(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t offset, size_t n);
~~~

Removes up to `n` bytes after offset `offset` in `buf`. Returns the number of
bytes actually removed.

## `c_buffer_remove`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_buffer_remove(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t n);
~~~

Removes up to `n` bytes at the end of `buf`. Note that this function does not
actually modify the content of the buffer and has a complexity of `Ο(1)`.
Returns the number of bytes actually removed.

## `c_buffer_extract`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_buffer_extract(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t *plen);
~~~

Resets `buf` without releasing the memory associated with the content and
returns a pointer on the content, effectively transferring ownership of the
content to the caller.

If `buf` is empty, `c_buffer_extract` returns NULL.

If `plen` is not `NULL`, stores the length of the content in the memory
referenced by `plen`.

`c_buffer_extract` uses `realloc` to truncate the memory used to store the
content of the buffer to its real length. If the call to `realloc` fails,
`c_buffer_extract` returns NULL, and the content of the buffer is not
modified.

## `c_buffer_extract_string`
~~~ {.c}
    char *c_buffer_extract_string(struct c_buffer *buf, size_t *plen);
~~~

`c_buffer_extract_string` works the same way that `c_buffer_extract`, but
ensures that the returned data end with a null byte. The length returned in
`plen` does not include the final null byte.

## `c_buffer_dup`
~~~ {.c}
    char *c_buffer_dup(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Duplicates the content of `buf` and returns a pointer to the newly allocated
data. If `buf` is empty or if memory cannot be allocated, `c_buffer_dup`
returns `NULL`.

## `c_buffer_dup_string`
~~~ {.c}
    char *c_buffer_dup_string(const struct c_buffer *buf);
~~~

Duplicates the content of `buf` as a null-terminated string and returns a
pointer to the newly allocated data. If `buf` is empty, an empty string is
returned. If memory cannot be allocated, `c_buffer_dup_string` returns
`NULL`.

## `c_buffer_read`
~~~ {.c}
    ssize_t c_buffer_read(struct c_buffer *buf, int fd, size_t n);
~~~

Uses the `read` POSIX function to read up to `n` bytes from file descriptor
`fd` at the end of `buf`. Returns the value returned by `read`.

## `c_buffer_write`
~~~ {.c}
    ssize_t c_buffer_write(struct c_buffer *buf, int fd);
~~~

Uses the `write` POSIX function to write the content of `buf` to file
descriptor `fd`. Returns the value returned by `write`. If the write operation
succeeds, written data are skipped in `buf`.
