
# Hash tables

## `c_hash_func`
~~~ {.c}
    typedef uint32_t (*c_hash_func)(const void *key);
~~~

A pointer on a hash function.

## `c_equal_func`
~~~ {.c}
    typedef bool (*c_equal_func)(const void *k1, const void *k2);
~~~

A pointer on an equality function. An equality function returns `true` if `k1`
and `k2` are the same or `false` if they are not.

## `c_hash_table_new`
~~~ {.c}
    struct c_hash_table *c_hash_table_new(c_hash_func hash_func,
                                          c_equal_func equal_func);
~~~

Creates and returns a new hash table. If the creation failed, `NULL` is
returned. `hash_func` is the function which will be used by the table to hash
the keys. `equal_func` is the function which will be used to test whether two
keys are equal or not.

## `c_hash_table_delete`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_hash_table_delete(struct c_hash_table *table);
~~~

Deletes a hash table, releasing any memory that was allocated for it.

If `table` is null, no action is performed.

The content of the memory referenced by `table` is undefined after
`c_hash_table_delete` has been called.

## `c_hash_table_nb_entries`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_hash_table_nb_entries(const struct c_hash_table *table);
~~~

Returns the number of entries currently stored in a hash table.

## `c_hash_table_is_empty`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_hash_table_is_empty(const struct c_hash_table *table);
~~~

Returns `true` if a hash table is empty or `false` else.

## `c_hash_table_clear`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_hash_table_clear(struct c_hash_table *table);
~~~

Removes all the entries from a hash table.

## `c_hash_table_insert`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_insert(struct c_hash_table *table, void *key, void *value);
~~~

Inserts a new entry or updates an existing one in a hash table.

If an entry with a key equal to `key` already exists in the table, its key is
set to `key` and its value is set to `value`. If not, a new entry is inserted.

`c_hash_table_insert` returns `1` if a new entry was inserted, `0` if an
existing entry was updated or `-1` if the insertion failed.

## `c_hash_table_insert2`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_insert2(struct c_hash_table *table, void *key, void *value,
                             void **old_key, void **old_value);
~~~

Inserts a new entry or updates an existing one in a hash table.

If an entry with a key equal to `key` already exists in the table, its key is
set to `key` and its value is set to `value`. In that case, pointers to the
key and value of the entry being replaced are stored in the pointers
referenced by `old_key` and `old_value` if `old_key` and `old_value` are not
null.

If there is no entry with a key equal to `key` in the table, a new entry is
inserted, and the pointers referenced by `old_key` and `old_value` are set to
`NULL` if `old_key` and `old_value` are not null.

`c_hash_table_insert2` returns `1` if a new entry was inserted, `0` if an
existing entry was updated or `-1` if the insertion failed.

Note that `old_key` and `old_value` are subject to the same warning than
`value` in `c_hash_table_get`.

## `c_hash_table_remove`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_remove(struct c_hash_table *table, const void *key);
~~~

Removes an entry from a hash table.

If the table does not contain any entry with this key, no action is performed.

`c_hash_table_remove` returns 1 if an entry was removed or 0 if not.

## `c_hash_table_remove2`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_remove2(struct c_hash_table *table, const void *key,
                             void **old_key, void **old_value);
~~~

Removes an entry from a hash table.

If the table does not contain any entry with this key, no action is performed.

If an entry was found and removed, its key is stored in the pointer referenced
by `old_key` is `old_key` is not null, and its value is stored in the pointer
referenced by `old_value` if `old_value` is not null.

`c_hash_table_remove` returns 1 if an entry was removed or 0 if not.

## `c_hash_table_get`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_get(struct c_hash_table *table, const void *key, void **value);
~~~

Retrieves the entry associated with a key in a hash table and copies its value
to the pointer referenced by `value`.

`c_hash_table_get` returns `1` if an entry with this key was found or `0` if not.

If no entry was found with this key, the pointer referenced by `value` is not
modified.

Note that values are stored as pointers (`void *`). When values are not
pointers (for example integers, using `C_INT32_TO_POINTER`), `c_hash_table_get`
will still write the whole pointer to the memory referenced by `value`.
Therefore the caller must make sure that the memory referenced by `value` is
at least of the size of a pointer. For example, when storing integers, one
should use `intptr_t`.

## `c_hash_table_contains`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_hash_table_contains(struct c_hash_table *table, const void *key);
~~~

Returns `true` if a hash table contains an entry or `false` if it does not.

## `c_hash_table_print`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_hash_table_print(struct c_hash_table *table, FILE *file);
~~~

Prints the content of a hash table to a file. No guarantee is provided
regarding the format of the output.

## `c_hash_table_iterate`
~~~ {.c}
    struct c_hash_table_iterator *c_hash_table_iterate(struct c_hash_table *table);
~~~

Creates and returns an object used to iterate through the entries of a hash
table.

The iterator is valid as long as no entry is added to the hash table. The
behavior of an iterator when it is not valid is undefined.

If the library is built in debug mode, assertions will make sure that no
element is added to the hash table while there exists an iterator associated
with it.

## `c_hash_table_iterator_delete`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_hash_table_iterator_delete(struct c_hash_table_iterator *it);
~~~

Deletes an iterator.

If `it` is null, no action is performed.

The content of the memory referenced by `it` is undefined after
`c_hash_table_iterator_delete` has been called.

## `c_hash_table_iterator_next`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_hash_table_iterator_next(struct c_hash_table_iterator *it,
                                   void **key, void **value);
~~~

Advances an iterator. If a next entry is found in the hash table, it copies
its key and value to the pointers referenced by `key` and `value` and return
1. `key` and/or `value` can be null.

If the iterator has reached the end of the hash table, the pointers referenced
by `key` and `value` are not modified and 0 is returned.

Note that `key` and `value` are subject to the same warning than `value` in
`c_hash_table_get`.

## `c_hash_table_iterator_set_value`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_hash_table_iterator_set_value(struct c_hash_table_iterator *it,
                                         void *value);
~~~

Modify the value of the hash table entry an iterator is currently pointing on.

If the iterator is not currently pointing on an entry, no action is performed.

## `c_hash_int32`
~~~ {.c}
    uint32_t c_hash_int32(const void *key);
~~~

A hash function to use for hash tables whose keys are 32 bit integers.

## `c_equal_int32`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_equal_int32(const void *k1, const void *k2);
~~~

An equality function to use for hash tables whose keys are 32 bit integers.

## `c_hash_string`
~~~ {.c}
    uint32_t c_hash_string(const void *key);
~~~

A hash function to use for hash tables whose keys are character strings.

## `c_equal_string`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_equal_string(const void *k1, const void *k2);
~~~

An equality function to use for hash tables whose keys are character strings.

## `C_INT32_TO_POINTER`
~~~ {.c}
    #define C_INT32_TO_POINTER(i_) ((void *)(intptr_t)(int32_t)(i_))
~~~

A macro to convert a 32 bit integer to a pointer value. It can be used when
the keys or values of a hash tables are 32 bit integers.

## `C_POINTER_TO_IN32`
~~~ {.c}
    #define C_POINTER_TO_INT32(p_) ((int32_t)(intptr_t)(p_))
~~~

A macro to convert a pointer value to a 32 bit integer. It can be used when
the keys or values of a hash tables are 32 bit integers.
