
# Heaps

The heap module implements an array based binary heap. Heap entries are ranked
using a comparison function, allowing constant time access to the lowest
ranked entry.

## `c_heap_cmp_func`
~~~ {.c}
    typedef int (*c_heap_cmp_func)(const void *, const void *);
~~~

A comparison function. The two arguments are two heap entries to compare. The
function either returns:

- -1 if the first entry comes first in the heap.
- 1 if the second entry comes first in the heap.
- 0 if the two entries have the same rank.

## `c_heap_new`
~~~ {.c}
    struct c_heap *c_heap_new(c_heap_cmp_func cmp);
~~~~

Creates and returns a new empty heap based on the comparison function `cmp`.
Returns `NULL` if memory allocation fails.

## `c_heap_delete`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_heap_delete(struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Deletes a heap and all data associated with it.

## `c_heap_nb_entries`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_heap_entries(const struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Returns the number of entries in a heap.

## `c_heap_is_empty`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_heap_is_empty(const struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Returns `true` if a heap is empty or `false` else.

## `c_heap_clear`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_heap_clear(struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Removes and all entries contained in a heap.

## `c_heap_reset`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_heap_reset(struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Removes and all entries contained in a heap and release memory used for their
storage.

## `c_heap_add`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_heap_add(struct c_heap *heap, void *entry);
~~~

Adds a new entry in a heap. Returns 0 on success or -1 if memory allocation
fails.

## `c_heap_remove`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_heap_remove(struct c_heap *, const void *entry);
~~~

Removes an entry from a heap. Returns 1 if the entry was found and removed or
0 if it was not found. Note that looking for the entry in the heap is an O(n)
operation.

## `c_heap_find`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_heap_find(const struct c_heap *heap, const void *entry, size_t *pidx);
~~~

Looks for an entry in a heap. Returns 1 if the entry was found or 0 if it was
not. If the entry was found, its position is returned in `pidx` if `pidx` is
not
null.

## `c_heap_contains`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_heap_contains(const struct c_heap *heap, const void *entry);
~~~

Looks for an entry in a heap. Returns `true` if the entry was found, or
`false` if it was not.

## `c_heap_peek`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_heap_peek(const struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Returns the first entry of a heap or `NULL` if the heap is empty.

## `c_heap_pop`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_heap_pop(struct c_heap *heap);
~~~

Removes the first entry of a heap if it contains at least one entry and return
its value, or returns `NULL` if the heap is empty.

## `c_heap_entry`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_heap_entry(const struct c_heap *heap, size_t idx);
~~~

Returns an entry from a heap using its index in the internal array. Note that
iterating in the internal array from `0` to `idx - 1` will not enumerate
entries from the lowest ranked entry to the highest ranked one.
