% libcore
% Nicolas Martyanoff

# Introduction

`libcore` is a library providing utility functions in C.


# License

`libcore` is released under the ISC license. See the `LICENSE` file for more
information. `libcore` is free software as defined by the OSI ^[Open Source
Initiative: <http://opensource.org>].


# Library

## Portability

The library is designed to work on UNIX platforms. Linux and FreeBSD are
officially supported. Other UNIX platforms will be supported on a best effort
basis. Microsoft Windows will not be supported.

The library is developped, tested and used mainly on a x86 64 bit
architecture. The x86 32 bit architecture is officially supported. Other
architectures are supported on a best effort basis.

## Memory

Functions which allocate memory use a set of standard functions stored in a
`c_memory_allocator` structure. One can provide a custom memory allocator
using the `c_set_memory_allocator` function.

All functions which allocate memory will handle allocation failure by
returning an error.

## Error handling

Functions which can fail generally return one of the following value:

- An integer whose value is -1 on failure.
- A pointer whose value is `NULL` on failure.

When a function fails, it sets an error string whose value can be accessed
using the `c_get_error` function.

Functions which fail ensure that any resource initialized by the function
before the failure point is released before returning.

When a function which has pointer arguments used for additional return values
fails, the value referenced by these pointers is undefined.

## Thread safety

Unless indicated otherwise, functions are not thread safe. Making every
function thread safe has a significant performance cost and is often
unnecessary.

However the library tries to minimize shared state. Data structures can be
used independently in multiple threads, as long as each structure is only
manipulated in the thread that created it.

## Signal handling

Unless indicated otherwise, functions do not manipulate signal handlers in any
way.

Signal interruption in system calls is handled differently depending on the
function. Refer to the documentation of each function for more information.

Functions do not try to be safe to use in signal handlers.

# Interface

The name of all symbols exported by the library is prefixed by `c_`.


# Modules

- [errors](errors.html)
- [memory](memory.html)
- [strings](strings.html)
- [buffers](buffers.html)
- [vectors](vectors.html)
- [hash tables](hash-tables.html)


# Bugs

If you find a bug, please report it on
[GitHub](https://github.com/galdor/libcore/issues). Include information about
the platform (architecture, operating system name and version, libc version…).


# Contact

If you have an idea or a question, email me at <khaelin@gmail.com>.
