
# Pointer vectors

Pointer vectors are a specialized version of the [vector](vectors.html) data
structure, designed to store only pointers. The API is nearly identical.

## `c_ptr_vector_new`
~~~ {.c}
    struct c_ptr_vector *c_ptr_vector_new(size_t entry_sz);
~~~

Creates and returns a new vector.

Returns `NULL` if memory allocation failed.

## `c_ptr_vector_delete`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_ptr_vector_delete(struct c_ptr_vector *vector);
~~~

Deletes a vector and all memory associated with it.

## `c_ptr_vector_entries`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_ptr_vector_entries(const struct c_ptr_vector *vector);
~~~

Returns a pointer on the entries of a vector. All entries are stored in a
single chunk of memory.

## `c_ptr_vector_length`
~~~ {.c}
    size_t c_ptr_vector_length(const struct c_ptr_vector *vector);
~~~

Returns the number of entries stored in a vector.

## `c_ptr_vector_is_empty`
~~~ {.c}
    bool c_ptr_vector_is_empty(const struct c_ptr_vector *vector);
~~~

Returns `true` if a vector does not contain any entry, or `false` else.

## `c_ptr_vector_entry`
~~~ {.c}
    void *c_ptr_vector_entry(const struct c_ptr_vector *vector, size_t idx);
~~~

Returns an entry of a vector. The behaviour of the function is undefined if
`idx` if greater or equal to the number of entries in the vector.

## `c_ptr_vector_clear`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_ptr_vector_clear(struct c_ptr_vector *vector);
~~~

Removes all entries in a vector. This function does not release any memory.

## `c_ptr_vector_append`
~~~ {.c}
    int c_ptr_vector_append(struct c_ptr_vector *vector, const void *value);
~~~

Appends an element to the end of a vector. Returns 0 on success, or -1 if
memory allocation failed.

## `c_ptr_vector_set`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_ptr_vector_set(struct c_ptr_vector *vector, size_t idx, const void *value);
~~~

Sets the value of an entry of a vector. The behaviour of the function is
undefined if `idx` is greater or equal to the number of entries in the vector.

## `c_ptr_vector_remove`
~~~ {.c}
    void c_ptr_vector_remove(struct c_ptr_vector *vector, size_t idx);
~~~

Removes an element from a vector. The behaviour of the function is undefined
if `idx` is greater or equal to the number of entries in the vector.
